Alan Turing
Alan Mathison Turing, OBE, FRS was a British pioneering computer scientist, mathematician, logician, cryptanalyst, philosopher, mathematical biologist, and marathon and ultra distance runner. He was highly influential in the development of computer science, providing a formalisation of the concepts of "algorithm" and "computation" with the Turing machine, which can be considered a model of a general purpose computer. Turing is widely considered to be the father of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence. Turing worked for the Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park, Britain's codebreaking centre.
John von Neumann
John von Neumann was a Hungarian and later American pure and applied mathematician, physicist, inventor, polymath, and polyglot. He made major contributions to a number of fields, including mathematics, physics, economics, computing, and statistics. He was a pioneer of the application of operator theory to quantum mechanics, in the development of functional analysis, a principal member of the Manhattan Project and the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, and a key figure in the development of game theory and the concepts of cellular automata, the universal constructor, and the digital computer. Von Neumann's mathematical analysis of the structure of self-replication preceded the .
Steve Jobs
Steven Paul Jobs (February 24, 1955 – October 5, 2011) was an American business magnate and investor. He was the chairman, chief executive officer (CEO), and co-founder of Apple Inc.; chairman and majority shareholder of Pixar; a member of The Walt Disney Company's board of directors following its acquisition of Pixar; and the founder, chairman, and CEO of NeXT. Jobs is widely recognized as a pioneer of the microcomputer revolution of the 1970s and 1980s, along with Apple co-founder Steve Wozniak.Jobs and Wozniak co-founded Apple in 1976 to sell Wozniak's Apple I personal computer. Together the duo gained fame and wealth a year later with the Apple II, one of the first highly successful mass-produced personal computers.
Bill Gates
William Henry Gates III (born October 28, 1955) is an American business magnate, investor, author, philanthropist, and humanitarian. He is best known as the principal founder of Microsoft Corporation.[2][3] During his career at Microsoft, Gates held the positions of chairman, CEO and chief software architect, while also being the largest individual shareholder until May 2014.In 1975, Gates and Paul Allen launched Microsoft, which became the world's largest PC software company.[4][a] Gates led the company as chairman and CEO until stepping down as CEO in January 2000, but he remained chairman and became chief software architect.[7]
Bob Kahn
The world wouldn’t be the same without the work of Bob Kahn, who invented the essential necessary communication protocols that transfer information within and among networks on the Internet. An electrical engineer, Kahn demonstrated the Advanced Research Projects Agency Network, or ARPANET, at the International Computer Communication Conference in 1972. This packet-switching network allowed several computers to connect and communicate with each other, and when Kahn connected 20 computers at the conference, the importance of the technology did not go unnoticed. Kahn went on to help create the TCP/IP protocols for linking distinct computer networks along with computer scientist Vint Cerf.
Linus Torvalds
A Finnish-American software engineer, Torvalds invented the Linux kernel, the crucial aspect of a modern computer’s operating system. The Linux kernel became the foundation for Linux, the most widely used operating system in the world. Although Linux is not as well-known by personal computer users, it is the backbone of the Internet. Linux servers are known for their stability and security. The Linux kernel also became the kernel for the Android and Chrome OS operating systems. Torvalds has won more than 10 major awards and was one of the first people inducted into the Internet Hall of Fame, in 2012.